==== SOURCE

https://techxplore.com/news/2017-04-google-brain-posse-neural-network.html
https://ai.googleblog.com/2019/05/introducing-translatotron-end-to-end.html

==== AGENT

Google Translatotron

==== GOAL

To create an AI to translate speech from one language (eg. Spanish) into another
language (eg. English), without the intermediate steps of speech to text and
text to speech. Removing text from the equation  should eliminate many
translation errors which are specific to text, as well as allowing other
information to be conveyed in the translation such as cadence and tone, giving a
more natural and complete translation.

This method of translation is knows as "End-to-end Speech Translation" as
distinct to "Cascade" which is what is currently used in Google translate.

==== DATA

The input data appears to be manual, as they need two humans to provide the
speech samples in both languages. It says in the article that "The team trained
its system on hundreds of hours of Spanish audio with corresponding English
text".

https://google-research.github.io/lingvo-lab/translatotron/

==== METHODS

An "encoder-decoder deep neural network" is used. This consists of an "ST
encoder", which has a pre-trained ASR encoder containing 5 bi-directional LSTMs
and 3 trainable LSTMs, an ST decoder with a pre-trained MT decoder containing 8
trainable LSTMs.

==== RESULTS

They got some pretty amazing results, especially the translations that speak in
the originator's voice. While they do sound artificial, they are comprehensible,
and sound better than the usual, monotonic Google translator voice.

==== COMMENTS

This is an ambitious project. I can't imagine Google, even with their vast
resources, having a library of recordings of phrases uttered in many languages.
Creating such a data set would take a long time and probably cost a lot of
money.

It seems like for this project to be a success it needs many examples. Currently
the translations it gives are less accurate than the translations from the
cascade systems used in Google Translate, so they're not going to switch to it
until it's at least as good, but may be they could invent some kind of hybrid
system which gives the best of both worlds.

I like this project in general, especially the original voice translations. This
could finally give us the "Universal Translator" from Star Trek!
