==== SOURCE

https://www.wired.com/story/can-ai-be-fair-judge-court-estonia-thinks-so/

==== AGENT

Unknown

==== GOAL

To reduce Estonia's backlog of court cases by deploying an AI to settle small
claims disputes of less than â‚¬7,000

==== DATA

Doesn't say. I would assume previous court cases and their outcomes.

==== METHODS

Pilot program is planned for later this year which focuses on contract disputes.
Two parties will upload documents and other relevant information, and the AI
will issue a decision that can be appealed to a human judge. It seems that
Estonia are using AI for other less controversial purposes such as inspecting
the harvests of farmers by analysing satellite data, and sending out resumes of
laid-off workers to appropriate employers, and now the time has come to replace
human judges with robots.

==== RESULTS

None yet

==== COMMENTS

I'm sceptical and a little scared by this article, but mainly sceptical as I
cannot take this idea seriously.

First off, I think anybody who has their case heard by a robot judge and the
case doesn't go their way will always appeal, so there's likely to be a human
judge involved in almost all cases which means the robot will fail. Even if it
makes the correct decision it will fail purely for being a robot.

Also, a Judge is a pretty well-respected job and to be a good judge one needs to
be a high-functioning individual, capable of understanding subtleties in each
and every case, I don't see how an important job which takes years of training
as a human to attain can suddenly be replaced with an AI when current AI, eg. my
Amazon echo regularly struggles with very simple instructions or questions. AI
technology is not even close to being good enough to replace human telephone
operators, much less JUDGES.

I realize these are only small claims cases, but in these cases there are almost
always ambiguities in the law which need to be interpreted by the Judge in the
context of their own knowledge and experience of previous cases. The judge also
needs to have a sense of fairness and make a sound judgement in the context of
the entirety of the case. AI cannot do this.
