==== SOURCE

https://www.economist.com/open-future/2019/10/01/how-to-respond-to-climate-change-if-you-are-an-algorithm

==== AGENT

OpenAI GPT2

==== GOAL

To win an essay-writing competition on climate change. = Economist's Open Future
essay competition

==== DATA

GPT2 is a pre-trained general model for language generation. There are small
(124M), medium (355M) and large (774M) datasets. The article doesn't state which
one was used.

https://github.com/openai/gpt-2

==== METHODS

They fed the GPT2 model with the essay question and 58-word description. The
model generated six 400-word texts, they (humans) took the larger parts of 3 of
them and placed them one after another with no editing.

==== RESULTS

They entered the essay into the competition, and it was judged by 6 judges who
had no idea it was written by an AI. 4 of the judges gave it a "No" and 2 gave
it a maybe. Most judges said that the essay didn't make any points and didn't
offer a clear solution, and that it was not well structured. One judge did say
the writing was "quite good"

So the AI didn't achieve the goal of winning the competition, but it didn't seem
to raise any suspicions among the judges.

==== COMMENTS

I think this was quite an interesting experiment, and somewhat sneaky of the
Economist. The GPT2 model does seem to generate text that seems natural if you
read a few lines of it, but after reading a few paragraphs, you get the sense
that it is rambling and seems to lack direction. The writing it produces doesn't
seem to have any goal, such as teaching something to the reader or convincing
them of a point.

In my own opinion, the scariest thing about GPT2 is the way it can sound very
intelligent, but if you read what it's actually saying, it can be ambiguous and
make well-written nonsense such as:

"It has long been known that the rate of carbon emissions growth is rapidly
declining, in part due to improvements in technology, including those to harness
the earthâ€™s abundant carbon resources."

Carbon emissions are not rapidly declining, although maybe they're growing but
the growth rate is in decline, either way it's ambiguous. Also, "carbon
resourses" aren't a thing. Carbon is not a resource. Carbon is a by-product.
It's somewhat disappointing that the judges didn't notice or point out these
inaccuracies.
