==== SOURCE

http://news.mit.edu/2019/automating-ai-medical-decisions-0806

==== AGENT

Gonzalez Ortiz, John Guttag, the Dugald C. Jackson Professor of Computer Science 
and Electrical Engineering and head of CSAIL’s Data Driven Inference Group; 
Robert Hillman, Jarrad Van Stan, and Daryush Mehta, all of Massachusetts General 
Hospital’s Center for Laryngeal Surgery and Voice Rehabilitation; and Marzyeh 
Ghassemi, an assistant professor of computer science and medicine at the 
University of Toronto.

==== GOAL

A machine learning model that automates a critical step in using AI for medical 
decision making, where experts usually identify important features in massive 
patient datasets by hand. The model was able to automatically identify voicing 
patterns of people with vocal cord nodules  and, in turn, use those features to 
predict which people do and don’t have the disorder. 

==== DATA

A dataset of about 100 subjects was used, each with about a week’s worth of 
voice-monitoring data and several billion samples — in other words, a small 
number of subjects and a large amount of data per subject. The dataset contain 
signals captured from a little accelerometer sensor mounted on subjects’ necks.

==== METHODS

For years, the MIT researchers have worked with the Center for Laryngeal Surgery 
and Voice Rehabilitation to develop and analyze data from a sensor to track 
subject voice usage during all waking hours. The sensor is an accelerometer with 
a node that sticks to the neck and is connected to a smartphone. As the person 
talks, the smartphone gathers data from the displacements in the accelerometer.

==== RESULTS

In experiments, the model performed as accurately as state-of-the-art models that 
require manual feature engineering. Importantly, the researchers’ model performed
accurately in both training and testing, indicating it’s learning clinically 
relevant patterns from the data, not subject-specific information

==== COMMENTS
This machine learning model seems to very promising and could potentially help 
diagnose patients.